How did you all feel about him? He became dean in the
50s. What kind of a dean was he? We were concerned he
was good. I agree. I agree. See, Margaret worked
for him. Really? Oh. Oh, she worked for him. Was he a
good person to work for? Yeah.
But she had a...
She'd been in so many different things And she was a
gal that wouldn't back off for anything. And she'd
come home and say, Dean Benson, and they had a
fight, the big boys, Dean Benson and the boys that
were running the,
what do you call it, where they, My memory is from
then. And they had a big fight in there one time, and
she was telling me about it. And he, and Dean Benson
came out of that room just red, Cumberston. The
other guy left. Cajon. Cajon, they were fighting.
And he left. Dean came out of there. And Margaret
said her office was like this, like the doors over
there. And they had a chair right here. And he
plopped himself down in that chair.
And I'd given Margaret some of her little old cars.
And she had one of them in the drawer. And she says,
Dean, do you want to see my new automobile?
And so she reached in the drawer and pulled it out
and put it in the run of him. And he broke up
laughing. She was that way. She could settle him
down. That's what she was after. And if I could chat
with her, would she say positive things about Fred
Benson? Yes. She had a high regard for him. Some of
those employees she had up there, she didn't like.
Now, where was the dean's office? It was in the
engineering building on that end, on the second
floor up there. When Earl Rudder was selected as
the new president of Texas A&M, what did you and the
other people here on the campus think? We didn't
pay any attention to it. You see, my father had told
me about so much about this faculty, that all these
people were in here that didn't have that
background. Mm-hmm. And they were fighting and
killing each other. Just climbing up a ladder. If
you could knock them off a ladder, so be it. And I
just sat back and laughed at them. I had a boss named
Vestal. And he was a hard hitter. But I knew what was
going to happen.
They'll just fight themselves to pieces, and few
of them will win. But most of them will leave and go
somewhere else. Now, in the 50s, where did you and
your family live? In the 50s, I built my home out in
North Oakwood. In North Oakwood. I built that in
46, and I still live in there. And on what street?
College View Street. What did it cost? Do you
remember what it cost per square foot to build it?
It cost about, the total thing I think was about
$8,000. And it stood the time. It was still, it
hadn't cracked or anything. It's got 57 yards of
concrete in that slab. And the NM Consolidated
School was right there convenient for your
children. No, we were on Bryan. Oh, I'm sorry. You
said North Oakwood. I was thinking of South
Oakwood. North Oakwood, yeah. We had to wait until
they paid.
We had a fight on that. The Crockett School.
Mary had to walk down that thing and cross that How
new was North Oakwood when you built your house?
Were there many houses in it? There were a few in
there, but they were all built prior to World War
II. In the block I was in, there are There were two
there and three there. There were three houses in
there.
Ours was the fourth one and the fifth one was built
about 1950. So they're trying to sell it at
$129,000.
If you and your wife and your friends were going to
go out for entertainment in the 50s. Where did you
go? Oh, the college put on a lot of things. They were
good about that sort of thing. Oh, you went to the
Skyway. The Skyway drive-in? Drive-ins were big.
You could carry your kids with you and everything
else. Did y'all go much downtown to the movie? Yes,
we went to the movies. Where would you have gone out
to eat? We went to Hotard's. At Hotard's?
Downtown. And we trained our children that once
they got through that door at Hotard's, they
didn't make any, carry on any fuss. They would
behave. They behaved. Were you all churchgoers in
the 50s? Oh, yeah. Where? First Presbyterian
Church of College Station. We got in a big fight
with Dean Boulder. And we wanted to fire Dr.
Anderson, the preacher. We thought it was time we
went in.
Because I think y'all were going there when we got
here in 59 and I think y'all were in that church
then. Yeah. We got here just after the new building
opened.
Yes, sir. The old one was still standing when we got
here in September of 59 but the services were being
held in the new building. Yeah, you see, another
thing, I had a business on the side, Scotts
Industries.
I realized that
we didn't have any printing, blueprinting for
engineers here. We all had to send it to Austin or
Houston or Waco.
About that time, in about 1946,
Oculus came on with a new machine, and I bought it.
And where did you open that business? In my garage.
All right, when it outgrew that, where did you
locate it? It's on Old Southern Spring Road. That
building's got that big billboard in the front of
it. So that's where you started? Really? After you
left the garage, where it is now? Yeah. Now, when
did you leave A&M? In 60. 60. We used to run that
thing for a long time. The only thing we really made
money on was, you didn't make much money on what
came over the counter except for people like
Codell, Ralph, and Scott. When you printed a job
for them, it usually cost them about four or five
grand. And that's when you made your money. And
you'd make one of those about every year. And so I
never, one of the things I did, I never involved
myself as a professional engineer. except in my
own business, which was airfoil. I started
airfoil in 60. Airfoil Impellers.
A-I-R-F-O-I-L? Impellers Incorporated. It's
over on over
in the industrial fire right next to the power
plant over there. And Brian. And Brian. And so that
just grew, and so that kept me busy. So I finally
quit A&M in 1960. All right, and your wife worked
how long out here? I don't know. She also, first
thing she did in 1960, she She was, we made her
postmaster's bride.
And we were Republicans. Took us a long time to do
it, but the one that really, really warped it up
was, what
were we talking about the other,
he was, he was the one But it was J.W. Hall that got it
for us.
He was big in the Republican Party.
Who were the other key Republicans in Brazos
County in the 50s, 60s? Well, all the people except
for ones we called Yellow Dog Democrats. Yellow
Dog Democrats.
Those are the liberals. And there were about 10% of
all the people in Texas were among those. But the
Democrat Party, the
people that were in there and voting, were
Republicans in nature. Oh, I know. But who were the
key leaders in this county that were Republicans
early on? J.W. Hall, myself, and
later on it was, what's the name of the bookstore
man? Leupold? Well, Leupold was the one that kept
us from getting Thomas' appointment. And she
didn't have it very long. Of course, then Kennedy
went out, so they went back and moved with him. He
was a Democrat. And so
that's where we were kind of out in the cold.
There's a little story about that. John Tower came
down here on one of his trips down here as a
Republican. And he flew into Easterwood
Field. And
so, oh.
They asked us to go out and so he'd have some people
to speak to, you know, to stop and tell us what he was
going to do. So we did. And when the newspaper
reported that, he said, They labeled off some of
the people that were there and said a small group,
including a Babes in Arms.
You know who that Babes in Arms was? Your
grandchild? No, my son. Oh. Well, our youngest
son. Oh. James. But how old was he? He was just as
young as that. That was in 60. Oh, okay, okay.
Mama was older
than me. We had gone out there to the help tower, you
know, try to get a little, and then
we had a lot of meetings and I remember one of them, I
was talking to George Bush, who ran for governor.
He and I stood out on the side of that building over
there at the American Legion for about two hours
just talking to each other.
That's the first Georgian.
What was your impression of him then? Good. See, I
was the precinct chairman for 11
for 30 some odd years.
Who was the first important Republican to win a
local office here? Do you remember?
Would that be up in the 60s or 70s? It probably would
be. because they were all Democrats back there.
But still, what they said and what they did was
exactly what the Republicans are doing today.
They're at heart, they're really Republicans.
But they're all what we call closet Republicans.
And we go ask, like,
the president of the bank, or the president of the
big company. He was a closet Republican. He'd give
you some money, but you didn't say nothing about
it. You just wouldn't use it. I mean, we're talking
closeted Republicans. All right, I believe we can
kind of bring this to a conclusion now. Trying to
summarize all of your A&M relations,
what did you learn in all of the years you were
associated with A&M that was important in your
life? What did it mean to you to have an A&M
connection? The engineering background I got.
And what I could do with it afterwards. And it was a
good background? Yeah. And when I worked for A&M, I
was someone over there that people sought out. Was
the Texas A&M engineering, was it theoretical or
was it applied? It was applied. Problem solving,
real world.
They always came after me. I mean,
J.W. Sorensen was one of my classmates. He was
always after me. And what I know, and I've known
this for a long time, for about 60-some odd years,
fan business is a real... You got simple
engineering in it, and it's just as
straightforward as you can be. But for some reason
or another, engineers just don't like it.
And this computer came on, and that saved me an
awful lot of trouble. That thing there.
What creates this Aggie pride and spirit? Why are
Aggies so proud? Because the
relationship they have with other people is one of
the things. But they've always had,
well, their athletics has been up and straight and
always good. you never outside of that thing that
happened in Baylor I don't know of any other place
they behaved themselves when they went off and
that thing in Baylor was all Baylor it wasn't A&M
but I think the biggest thing was when the old time
stuff when they marched in there at on company
front and they were all in there at one time or they
were coming out and then they had you had you had
supervision from army people now I think that's
one of the best things we can have in a school now I'm
in the alliance club and we've had two men in the
alliance club that that were operating the ones in
Bryan High School. And what I saw those men do with
those kids, I appreciated it. Because they knew,
the kids knew that there was a certain discipline
that they had to get down. And so that's one of the
things. And I hate to, I'm glad the Corps is still
here. and I think it ought to be in almost all of the
big high schools. We wouldn't be, they wouldn't be
hauling guns in there. If you were a hired
consultant to Texas A&M's leadership now, the
decision makers about this institution, what
would you advise them to do with A&M in the future?
is Millen College. I mean, get other colleges and
institutions. I mean, not colleges, but out of
high school. The transition from high school into
an institution like this, an ordinary man can't
handle it. But if you can put him in an institution
like, uh blend college they're doing one hell of a
job i saw it with my son they just start to blossom
how how big should a m's enrollment be allowed to
grow 50 grand you think we could handle that many
students i think you can but i i would i would take a
and m and uh Of course, we've got Glenn, which I
think is enough right here, but they're going to
have to be others. But you've got to have them up
against, well, like Brenham is a good
organization there. There's theirs there. But
all of the big institutions have got to do this the
same way. You've got to have them come out of high
school, then you've got to have them go into some
sort of a, junior college, what I call it, and have
those very well-regulated and top-flight
employees, or professors. It's just important to
put the best man there and have him here at A&M. And
another thing, they're all uptight about this
that the professors should do research on. I'm not
in favor of that. I agree with you. I want them to
teach. Get down with the students and they, now if
they can change that from have student activities
that is
Professors should have, he'd teach a class for
many hours here, but I want him over here in some
sort of activity that's helping them learn what he
taught them. Right? Now, I can show you this. Texas
Tech has this thing. I'm interested in this safe
room for tornadoes. And they have a big thing with
the FINA people. But they required all those
people, and they sent me a list of them with their
little piddling things,
unconnected. Now, there's got to be some, you've
got to teach these professors to teach the people
to look at stuff. And the second thing is you never
quit reading and studying. I can tell you, if
you're interested in mechanics like that, take
Popular Mechanics and Popular Science, read them
from cover to cover. And also, you can get a lot of
engineering books. I spent many hours over here
in- In the Enging Library? No, not the Enging
Library. Oh. The regular library. In Cushing.
Cushing. And that big old room up there, I'd sit
there many hours. And what I was doing, I was trying
to change a V8 Ford into a front-wheel drive.
If you could make a major gift to Texas A&M,
somebody walked up to you and gave you a check for a
million dollars, but you have to pass it on to A&M,
but you decide how the money will be spent, what
would you want A&M to do with a gift that you made?
What would you want it for?
What in ag engineering? Students, faculty,
research? No, mainly students and faculty that
are conscious of, well, it amounts to the fluid
mechanics,
the air. I'm a fan man. I'm sitting here and I know
more about fans than anybody in the country. I can
tell you that and I can back it up.
You want somebody to continue that? Continue
that, work at it, and I've
got I've got equipment in my shop out here that
won't be built for 10 years. My, my, how good, how
good. I mean, because the price of energy is too
low. I mean, that's, and you've got to get people,
you've got to train these people to look at things
and sit and study them. And then they've got to
help.
It's a marvelous field in health. All right, my
last question. What feelings do you carry in your
heart today for Texas A&M? How do you feel about A&M
today? Well, it's a great institution. That's all
I can say about it.
People can come here, and if they apply
themselves, and according to what they tell them,
They'll survive. Now, you may not end up in what you
set out to do as your own thing, but you can follow it
along and do the very best you can, and you'll be
rewarded for it. Are you grateful your dad got
hired here in 1919? Oh, yeah. I'm sorry he didn't
live, but that's, that's, that's the roll of the
dice. He wound up the,
the
cancer had taken his brain
away. One side of his brain. But you're a proud
Aggie today. I'm a proud egghead today. I'm sure he
was too. He was really satisfied with what
happened to him here. And I'm sure he'd have been a
dean and he'd have been top of this thing yet. About
what age was he? He was 56. 56. A young man.